Eric Trump on Wednesday dismissed arguments that his father, Donald Trump Donald TrumpThe Hill's Morning Report - Presented by Facebook - Split screen: Biden sells stimulus; GOP highlights border Democrats move smaller immigration bills while eyeing broad overhaul Social media platforms on the right fail to maintain post-Jan. 6 growth MORE, should release his tax returns, saying doing so would be "foolish."

ADVERTISEMENT

“You would have a bunch of people who know nothing about taxes trying to look through and trying to come up with assumptions on things they know nothing about,” Eric Trump said Wednesday on CNBC.

“It would be foolish to do. I’m actually the biggest proponent of not doing it.”

Donald Trump, the Republican presidential nominee, has faced criticism for refusing to release his tax returns.

He has repeatedly pushed back against calls to release the documents, saying he is under audit by the Internal Revenue Service (IRS).

The IRS has said nothing prevents Trump from releasing his tax returns.

Eric Trump said on Wednesday that there is "no tax attorney in the world who will tell you to release your tax returns while you're under a standard routine audit."

He added, "You don't learn that much from a tax return.

"You learn a lot more when you look at somebody's assets. You know how many hotels we have around the world. You know how many golf courses we have around the world. You know every single building we have."

Democratic presidential nominee Hillary Clinton Hillary Diane Rodham ClintonClinton on Zhao, Fennell: About time DNC gears up for midterm push Trump and Hillary: Forever connected by self-created failure MORE last summer released her tax returns from 2007 to 2015, and this month she released her 2015 returns. Her running mate, Sen. Tim Kaine Timothy (Tim) Michael KaineOregon senator takes center stage in Democratic filibuster debate This week: Democrats eye next step after coronavirus relief bill win House panel to take up 2002 war authorization repeal in 'coming weeks' MORE (D-Va.), also released 10 years of returns this month.

Trump's running mate, Indiana Gov. Mike Pence Michael (Mike) Richard PencePence endorses Sarah Huckabee Sanders for Arkansas governor In 'restoring America's soul,' Biden can become a hero for the persecuted Pences announce birth of first grandchild MORE, has also said he plans to release his tax returns.

Democrats have seized on Donald Trump's refusal to release the documents. Clinton has hit Trump on the issue several times in the past, and her campaign released an ad earlier this month highlighting past remarks by the GOP nominee saying he would release his returns.